tox-user
hi everyone

Ingvar
hi

tox-user
it's meeting time

tox-user
hope everyone is here

toxirc
sudden6: sudden6 reporting in :)

tox-user
:)

tox-user
before we start

Ingvar
>hope everyone is here
too optimistic

Ingvar
too optimistic

tox-user
some people told me that they don't like the fact that we recorded this public meeting on this public channel last time and published the logs

toxirc
sudden6: ok?

toxirc
sudden6: why

toxirc
sudden6: IMO it's important to preserve it

tox-user
they said privacy reasons

toxirc
anthonybilinski: as someone who wasn't present but wanted to see what happened, the logs were helpful for me personally. plus it's a channel of 80 people, most of whom I don't know, it seems like there's no privacy to start

tox-user
but I don't get it because on IRC everything is logged and it's a public meeting announced to hundreds of people via github and reddit on a public channel

toxirc
sudden6: yeah, seems like a needless hurdle

toxirc
sudden6: I think most clients even log by default

tox-user
yeah and the server most likely does too

tox-user
some people are coming to toxirc right now because toxync isn't working

tox-user
it must have disconnected from IRC

toxirc
robinli: toxync12- is here.

tox-user
so is there anyone here that doesn't want the meeting to be logged?

toxirc
sudden6: I'm fine with logging

toxirc
anthonybilinski: +1

tox-user
ok great :) let's start with the first topic then

tox-user
https://github.com/tox-user/tox-dev-meetings/tree/master/30_06_2018

tox-user
PGC development state

tox-user
whose suggestion was it?

toxirc
sudden6: I think it was spillover from the last time

tox-user
I see

tox-user
so what's the state? Ingvar you said you reproduced some bugs?

tox-user
I think we got the PGC crash fixed right?

toxirc
sudden6: so we have one bug fixed in pgc, namely the crash with peer->nick and peer->nick_len

tox-user
good that's progress

toxirc
sudden6: iphy wants a test to reproduce

tox-user
why do we need tests for everything shouldn't we fix stuff first?

Ingvar
test for reproducing race condition? terrible idea

toxirc
sudden6: It's not a race condition afaict

toxirc
sudden6: the fix is merged already btw, I'm also not sure it makes sense to write a test in this specific instance

tox-user
I'm glad that it's merged

toxirc
sudden6: zugz_: I think just working

tox-user
there are a few bugs left in PGC

toxirc
sudden6: Ingvar what's the state of the other bugs?

toxirc
sudden6: are there issues for them on GH somewhere so we can track progress?

Anthony
it looks like toxirc isn't briding zugz's messages to the people in tox :S

tox-user
:O

toxirc
sudden6: true

toxirc
sudden6: wonder why though^^

tox-user
I'm so tired of those broken bots!

tox-user
toxirc had some bug with a name I think his name is causing it

toxirc
sudden6: zugz_: maybe the underscore?

toxirc
anthonybilinski: nope

toxirc
sudden6: nah still only on IRC

toxirc
sudden6: maybe the name is too short?

tox-user
we really need a new bot

toxirc
sudden6: ok, my own messages don't get relayed now too

tox-user
what?! I can see them

toxirc
anthonybilinski: I can see sudden6, but still not zugz

tox-user
so one bot broke and another one has an annoying bug and randomly drops messages - this is fun

toxirc
sudden6: Everybody move to IRC for now?

toxirc
sudden6: to get this meeting going?

tox-user
I can't

tox-user
we can try to move on

toxirc
sudden6: ok, annoying

tox-user
so what are the other bugs that are left?

sudden6-pc
<zugzugzugz> anyway, I was just talking to iphy about it, so I know there's also a memleak and a use after free for which there are tests but no fixes yet

toxirc
sudden6: zugzugzugz: so we know of 2 other bugs left

tox-user
oh I see

tox-user
there are more though

tox-user
there is one with toxync where auto join is broken

tox-user
and there is one where you can't send messages

Anthony
>zugzugzugz: I'm getting some other errors from the auto_conference_test, but they may be artifacts of the test
>toxygen_tox: Memleak is easy to fix. Just free memory in kill_groupchats
>toxygen_tox: Lol, my messages aren't relayed too

tox-user
there are no issues for them created because nobody cared about finishing PGC back then

toxirc
anthonybilinski: manual bridge :-/

Ingvar
tox-user: can you send messages after some timeout?

tox-user
:(

tox-user
no, when the bug happens I get an error that the message couldn't be sent

tox-user
I once left it for hours and it didn't reconnect

toxirc
sudden6: tox-user can you resend afterwards?

toxirc
sudden6: or do you have to restart the client?

tox-user
I can only send messages when I manually rejoin the group

Ingvar
bad connection?

tox-user
can't be bad connection because I was able to talk to other people

toxirc
sudden6: maybe something to do with TCP?

tox-user
and sometimes some other groups. I remember that it once happened to all of the groups I was connected to

tox-user
it happens rarely and I don't know how to reproduce it. It affects all groups

tox-user
not just toxync

Anthony
>zugz: could someone relay (or answer) my question: is ngc expected to entirely supersede pgc?

Ingvar
I repro this bug but I didn't get error with sending messages

Ingvar
I didn't see it but w/o errors

Ingvar
zugz: in future - yes

tox-user
zugz: yes eventually but at first it both will have to be used

tox-user
because audio is broken in ngc and it will take some time to fix it

Ingvar
fix => rewrite from scracth

tox-user
Ingvar: you reproduced the bug with toxync groups?

Ingvar
with rbroken rejoin?

tox-user
yes

Ingvar
yes. in 2 clients

Ingvar
isotoxin is looking into it

toxirc
sudden6: zugz: could you add an issue to the c-toxcore repo so we can track the progress on pgc?

tox-user
nice

toxirc
sudden6: should we create a milestone with all the pgc stuff?

Anthony
>zugz: ok thanks, then I guess it's not so bad to merge pgc even if it's not the cleanest code

tox-user
sudden6: yes great idea!

Ingvar
you mean with bugs?

tox-user
pgc is not stable right now

toxirc
sudden6: tox-user afaict it's as stable as current groups, no?

Ingvar
current groups are terrible

tox-user
sudden6: no because of the two bugs we talked about. One with broken autojoin and another one that causes your messages to not get sent sometimes

tox-user
when those are fixed it should be similar to current groups

toxirc
sudden6: ok, we need to write all those bugs down, I loose track of them

tox-user
assuming we don't find more bugs

tox-user
I wrote one down

tox-user
https://gist.github.com/tox-user/6b87ceff4cc280e514bfdb31583f582a

toxirc
sudden6: lets move this to the issue tracker

tox-user
I wrote about one in the PR

Ingvar
probably in this case problem is on toxync side

tox-user
possible but still weird

Anthony
>sudden6: is toxync using pgc toxcore?
>zugz: sudden6: ok, shall I just create an issue "status of persistent group chats" and we can link things there?

Anthony
>sudden6: zugz: I would prefer one issue per bug

Anthony
>sudden6: then we can make it a milestone on GH
>zugz: right ok

tox-user
zugz: toxync doesn't use pgc to my knowledge

tox-user
but it's hard to know for sure what code is running on it

Anthony
omg bridge is down both ways for everyone

Anthony
I can't copy paste fast enough

tox-user
aaaah noooooo

tox-user
whhyyyy

Anthony
>sudden6: zugz: yeah, lets start with the fact that the bugs exist
>toxygen_tox: Good reason to move our meetings to tox
>sudden6: it's enough for now I think

tox-user
lol I will just start writing a new bot right now and see if I can finish before the meeting ends

sudden6-pc
Milestone created: https://github.com/TokTok/c-toxcore/milestone/31

tox-user
thanks

sudden6-pc
please register all bugs that were mentioned there

tox-user
will do

sudden6-pc
toxirc is completely desynced

Ingvar
toxirc is offline

tox-user
omg

Anthony
ah, that would do it

sudden6-pc
ok, then lets move to IRC for now?

tox-user
or move to Tox? :D

sudden6-pc
without a groupbot Tox is useless

sudden6-pc
or is everybody already running pgc?

Ingvar
lets move to kalina bot

tox-user
I am but what does pgc have to do with anything?

Ingvar
with logs

tox-user
there is Tox Public Chat on groupbot

tox-user
it's full of people

Ingvar
but no logs

MAL
Having tox dev meeting on tox would make sense ;)

tox-user
lol yeah

tox-user
we have logs though

sudden6-pc
yeah, but we need a persistent place

tox-user
we can upload them

sudden6-pc
qTox has logs

tox-user
not :D

Anthony
not persistent in groups

sudden6-pc
ah, right

tox-user
we will upload it

tox-user
we need to anyway

tox-user
Tox Public Chat is a persistent group on groupbot

tox-user
and groupbot is used by everyone

Ingvar
so where will we continue?

tox-user
>Friends: 1364 (100 online)

tox-user
I think we should move to Tox Public Chat and tell everyone on IRC to come

tox-user
this bot is too unstable

Anthony
>sudden6: zugz: can you move to tox too?
>zugz: here's the memleak issue: https://github.com/isotoxin/toxcore-vs/issues/3

Anthony
>zugz: how?

tox-user
groupbot's ID: 56A1ADE4B65B86BCD51CC73E2CD4E542179F47959FE3E0E21B4B0ACDADE51855D34D34D37CB5

tox-user
channel: Tox Public Chat

sudden6-pc
tox-user is it still synced to #tox?

tox-user
or can be this one on toxirc I dont know

tox-user
no, jfreegman banned it for good

sudden6-pc
toxirc is dead and offline

sudden6-pc
groupbot it is then

tox-user
but it used toxync anyway and that is broken

tox-user
I tried to connect to freenode over web client but it asks me to select pictures of roads and will take me forever

tox-user
so we moved to groupbot, Tox Public Chat channel:
groupbot's ID: 56A1ADE4B65B86BCD51CC73E2CD4E542179F47959FE3E0E21B4B0ACDADE51855D34D34D37CB5
sudden6-pc
all arrived for the dev meeting

sudden6-pc
?

Anthony
here

tox-user
me too

sudden6-pc
lets eat our own dog food

tox-user
we need a new bot before next meeting

zugz
ok

tox-user
or we should move meetings to Tox permanently

tox-user
I'm gonna create those issues in the milestone

Ingvar
>or we should move meetings to Tox permanently
good idea

tox-user
we should move on to the next topic: WebRTC support

sudden6-pc
but continue with the meeting

Tristan B. Kildaire (Mobile)
noice

tox-user
Skyzohkey is not here again

tox-user
so I don't know does anyone want to discuss it?

tox-user
or we move on?

sudden6-pc
move on

tox-user
here are the topics btw https://github.com/tox-user/tox-dev-meetings/tree/master/30_06_2018

tox-user
next is: Capabilities (features, backward compatibility, implementation) [kurnevsky]

Ingvar
he is offline too

tox-user
yeah, anyone interested in that?

tox-user
Ingvar you said we can't implement it before multidevice?

tox-user
if I remember correctly?

sudden6-pc
what?

tox-user
capabilities

Anthony
doesn't make sense to me, maybe the other way around?

Ingvar
no

tox-user
ok, my bad

tox-user
but Capabilities are only needed for messagev2 right?

sudden6-pc
theres a proposal for capabilities in the issue tracker

tox-user
and I remember that Ingvar said we shouldn't implement messagev2 before multidevice

sudden6
seems one of my pcs dropped out of the chat :/

tox-user
oops good thing you have a backup PC :D

sudden6
yep^^

tox-user
any thoughts on capabilities anyone?

tox-user
or messagev2 since it's related

sudden6
so, for capabilities I started a draft but in the issue tracker somewhere

tox-user
yeah I remember

sudden6
but I don't have enough time to develop it further

tox-user
there were two proposals

tox-user
but do we need this feature?

sudden6
yes, mine is based on msg-pack though, not sure if we want that dependency?

sudden6
I think so

tox-user
why?

Anthony
yes I think capabilities are a great idea to have in the protocol

tox-user
https://github.com/TokTok/c-toxcore/issues/843

sudden6
to signal if the other party supports certain features e.g. audio video,...

tox-user
what will it allows us to do?

tox-user
*allow

sudden6
and for easier protocol upgrade

Anthony
yeah, gives the ability to have future changes to the protocol

sudden6
but it's not at the roadmap anyway, so we should postpone it for the time being

tox-user
yeah PGC and NGC are priorities right?

sudden6
yes

sudden6
that shouldn't change every week

sudden6
so, capabilities postponed after NGC?

sudden6
we should also write a timeline somewhere

tox-user
we haven't changed anything

sudden6
yes, and that's good^^

tox-user
:)

tox-user
but yeah we need it written down

tox-user
no idea how or where

sudden6
no idea either, any suggestions?

sudden6
maybe a simple list in md on c-toxcore repo?

tox-user
we need a roadmap with everything written down. Near future and future

tox-user
why doesn't toktok.ltd have that?

tox-user
or we could have it on tox.chat

sudden6
idk who has control over that

tox-user
iphy

sudden6
only?

tox-user
I don't know

tox-user
I think it would be nice if people were able to access it easily though

sudden6
-> GH

tox-user
to see that there is some actual planning

tox-user
and not just chaos

tox-user
next topic

tox-user
Define process for protocol changes [sudden6]

sudden6
yep, how long do we want to support backwards?

tox-user
old API?

tox-user
or old group chats?

sudden6
no, on the protocol level not API level

tox-user
so like old group chats?

Anthony
in general, I'd say keep protocol as long as possible, seems pretty disastorous to break protocol without any fallback

Anthony
if friends just can't communicate after one updates

Anthony
but that's kind of an obvious answer, guess it depends on how impossible keeping backwards compatibility is

sudden6
yeah, lets wait for NGC to be ~implemented

sudden6
next topic?

Ingvar
ngc and md will break protocol 100%

tox-user
sudden6: what is the merged commit that fixed PGC crash?

sudden6
tox-user should be listed in the PR as last commit

tox-user
ok

sudden6
also I think we should hold the next meeting in IRC again

tox-user
why?

sudden6
because there's again another discussion popping up in IRC...

tox-user
omg

tox-user
can you ask them to come here?

sudden6
KISS and stick to IRC for now

sudden6
no need to break everything at once

tox-user
I can't but you are free to use IRC if you want

tox-user
unless I manage to write a new bot this week and find someone to host it

tox-user
but still I don't see why not use Tox for those meetings

tox-user
we have the same amount of active people here

sudden6
I again had a bug where I couldn't write anything to the group

tox-user
are you using pgc?

tox-user
because then it's the bug I was talking about today

sudden6
yes

tox-user
ok hurray someone else reproduced it besides me :)

Ingvar
i reproduced it too

tox-user
so now you see that pgc isn't very stable

tox-user
oh ok

Ingvar
but I did it after fast reconnection to network

tox-user
sudden6: was pgc crash fixed in https://github.com/TokTok/c-toxcore/pull/826/commits/5b6d1129ca9b4eff4781315d622382d471b1745e ?

Ingvar
I had the same bug in ngc, it was difficult to fix

tox-user
:/

sudden6
move on with the meeting? we are again at 1:08min

tox-user
Discuss IRC syncing features and groupbot replacement [sudden6]

tox-user
we are almost done because hugbubby who suggested last 4 isn't here

Ingvar
bots are online?

tox-user
which ones

Ingvar
toxirc/toxync

tox-user
they are

tox-user
on Tox

sudden6
right toxync seems to be back

tox-user
wasn't toxync online the whole time?

tox-user
it was its IRC connection that broke

Ingvar
no

tox-user
Discuss IRC syncing features and groupbot replacement [sudden6]

tox-user
so we need a new groupbot

tox-user
current one lacks important features such as logs and autoinvite

tox-user
and many other improvements could be done

sudden6
or maintainer

tox-user
yeah

tox-user
and our IRC sync bots suck too

sudden6
obviously

tox-user
so I propose to create a new bot that has all of those features

tox-user
written in python

tox-user
because we don't need 2000 lines of code in C

sudden6
ok, who will maintain the python code?

sudden6
(I'm not good at it)

tox-user
I want to write the bot

sudden6
ok, then it's greate

tox-user
I'm not great at python but I can do it

sudden6
will you use Ingvars framework?

tox-user
that's the problem

tox-user
I don't know. It seems so complicated. So many classes

tox-user
take a look

tox-user
https://github.com/toxygen-project/bot-platform

tox-user
that vs Diadlo's python groupbot:
https://github.com/Diadlo/PyToxBot

tox-user
    params = ToxBotAppParameters(interpreter_factory=lambda bot: EchobotInterpreter(bot))
    # starts app
    app.main(params)


if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```

sudden6
I don't find the example that confusing

tox-user
right but someone has to maintain all of that code

tox-user
the library itself

tox-user
    app.main(params)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()

```

sudden6
my only concern is, that there are many python <-> c-toxcore libraries

tox-user
weird I can't send this in code in a message ...

sudden6
each one half tested

tox-user
what do you mean?

Anthony
tox-user: message is being split into 2, breaking formatting

sudden6
currently there's py-toxcore-c

sudden6
and Ingvars binding

tox-user
Anthony: and I was gonna say that the advantage of Tox over IRC is that we can send multiline messages

tox-user
right so only two implementations

tox-user
pytox isn't great because it doesn't work over Tor for example

sudden6
yeah, so as long as you don't create a third one it should be ok^^

tox-user
:D

tox-user
I would probably use pytox because I know how to use it already

sudden6
hmm ok

tox-user
so the must have features in new group bot are in my opinion: logs, auto invite, irc syncing, permanent groups

Anthony
what about hosting? I don't mind the bandwidth but it seems inevitable that I'll get IP banned from IRC channels

sudden6
make it prioritized:

- permanent groups
- auto invite
- logs
- irc syncing

sudden6
?

sudden6
top is highes

tox-user
yeah something like that

tox-user
well I think iphy wants it to be hosted by our servers

tox-user
the ones that host current groupbot and echobot

tox-user
but I wish this new bot had some basic form of moderation (muting spammers) and I don't trust our admins :D

tox-user
because they banned toxync

tox-user
iphy wanted not an IRC syncing bot but a gateway that creates separate connection per user

sudden6
there could be a feature to prevent messages from certain IDs to IRC

sudden6
also a good idea

tox-user
yeah that's what I meant by muting spammers

tox-user
but I'm afraid to give those tools to our admins :D

tox-user
thanks to them this group is dead and #tox on freenode too

Anthony
they were muting toxync because they couldn't mute individuals who were spamming, if they have that tool they can use it the same as IRC bans

tox-user
nobody was spamming

tox-user
toxync was banned for offtopic

sudden6
the reason is the same, no tools to mute individuals

tox-user
not really. The entire bridge was banned with no warning

sudden6
if you're afraid of that, then maybe the better approach is individual connections

tox-user
so if there were tools for muting people would get muted for no reason without any warning

sudden6
but freenode will not like a lot of connections from one IP

sudden6
tox-user: there were warnings in the logs I have seen

sudden6
and also in one instance where I was in the group

sudden6
* channel

tox-user
I've seen those logs. There were no warnings. Once I saw Jfreegman tell russian people to shut up but nothing besides that

tox-user
the last time toxync was banned on #tox there was no warning too

tox-user
just banned a few hours later because two people were saying hi to each other

tox-user
so I think hosting is one issue because I don't want those admins to have control over the bot. But anyway a gateway is an interesting idea but I'm not sure how realistic it is. It would have to be approved by freenode otherwise it wouldn't be usable

sudden6
ok, to sum it up, you will try to find a solution for the bot problem?

tox-user
I will write one

tox-user
can we move on to the next topic?

sudden6
yes

tox-user
Rust toxcore [hugbubby]

tox-user
hugbubby is not here. Is anyone interested in this? I don't even know what he meant

sudden6
talking about rs-tox probably

tox-user
yeah

sudden6
but no idea what he wants specifically

sudden6
1,5h btw

tox-user
nobody knows

tox-user
next: Dev recruitment [hugbubby]

tox-user
we are almost over

tox-user
next topics are:
- Dev recruitment [hugbubby]
- Meetings schedule [hugbubby]
- Online after many minutes bug [hugbubby]

tox-user
anyone interested in any of this?

sudden6
meeting schedule

tox-user
what about it?

sudden6
I'd perfer a 2 weeks schedule

sudden6
*prefer

tox-user
why?

sudden6
not much changed and ~1,5h per week seems much for me

tox-user
we would have been done 30 minutes ago if stupid bots didn't fail

tox-user
also we got offtopic a few times

sudden6
yeah, so IRC it is next time?

tox-user
what does everyone else think?

MAL
Tox Public Chat seems ok, or why not create a Tok Meeting group using groupbot?

MAL
Seems weird for tox devs not to use tox :P

tox-user
:D

Anthony
I'm fine with either, but we need to get robinli and iphy in if they're arround, today they were having a side meeting in IRC

tox-user
I would prefer to use Tox

tox-user
ehh

zugz
joining a tox public chat exposes your ip address to everyone in the group, and associates it with your tox public key

tox-user
iphy won't join

Anthony
if we can't get them to tox then I think we should use IRC just to get their input, since they're main core devs

MAL
he hates tox?

tox-user
zugz: joining IRC exposes your IP too

tox-user
zugz: you can use Tor like I do

tox-user
can't connect to freenode over Tor though

Ingvar
zugz: use tor

zugz
to the irc gateway only if you set things up right

zugz
using tor doesn't prevent linking your dht pubkey to your long term pubkey though

zugz
which can be used to work out who your friends are

Ingvar
lol. use temp account

Ingvar
like I do

zugz
true

tox-user
MAL: maybe but I think he sometimes has connection issues and group chats aren't working well when that happens unless there is a bot with logs

sudden6
iphy has really shitty internet, Tox doesn't like that

Anthony
zugz: link long-term pub key to session key? how?

tox-user
zugz: public key is public

sudden6
IRC is developed for that

tox-user
so what that someone knows it?

zugz
this is off-topic... shall we call the meeting ended then we can discuss?

tox-user
sudden6: with logs Tox is fine trust me. But without them it's impossible

tox-user
we need to decide where the next meeting will be

sudden6
I vote for IRC

zugz
irc

Ingvar
Tox

Anthony
IRC

tox-user
Tox

MAL
I'm not a dev but as a lurker I vote tox if it matters :D lol

tox-user
anyone else voting?

tox-user
:D

sudden6
asked in the IRC, wait a min

tox-user
lol it's obvious what IRC people are gonna say

tox-user
but it's fair

Anthony
seems kind of biased to only ask the people on Tox :P

tox-user
true

sudden6
robinli says IRC

sudden6
iphy didn't answer

tox-user
I think one meeting a week if ti's around 1h long should be fine?

tox-user
no need to make it one meeting every two weeks? if someone can't come every week that's fine they can always read the log later and come to the next meeting

sudden6
if we limit it to 1h it would be ok

tox-user
we need to work it out

Anthony
I'm not sure I believe that we can limit to 1h, last two have been ~2h

sudden6
So IRC it is?

Anthony
but I'm ok with every week

tox-user
I guess 4:3 for IRC

MAL
Does the kiwi IRC client leak the IP or does it mask it?

Ingvar
lets use ngc next time

tox-user
I think we can limit them to ~1h. This meeting and the previous one weren't ordinary

tox-user
hahaha

Anthony
tox-user: you said you got a captcha on freenode over Tor? does that mean you /can/ access it?

tox-user
alright so it's decided that we will have ~1h long weekly meetings on IRC (for now?)

tox-user
in that case the meeting is over

sudden6
ok, good :)
